So far, we have learned how radar generates
the signals and the factors that impact the signal propagation.
Now we will look into how a target and properties impact the radar detection.
Ever wondered what makes the stealth aircraft go undetected?
The answer is RCS.
But what is RCS?
Radar Cross Section is defined as the size and
ability of a target to reflect radar energy.
It is measured in meter square and depends on the following criteria.
Number 1, the direction of the illuminating radar.
That is, the angle at which the radar beam hits the target.
Different angle of elimination will have different returns signal strength.
Number 2, radars transmitter frequency.
Higher the frequency, smaller the wavelength of the signal,
and more will be the RCS of the target.
Number 3, material reuse in cars, trucks,
bicycles, and some cases even the clothing material for pedestrians.
Number 4, the most important,
targets physical geometry and exterior features.
Let's say if a target has smooth edges or surface,
then it would scatter waves in all directions.
Hence, only a part of the signal gets reflected back to the radar.
This leads to a lower RCS.
Sharp corners will focus the return signal back in
the direction of the source leading to higher RCS.
We can see this clearly depicted by the images of different target geometries.
So as you can see, the sphere reflects the signal in all the directions.
But here, a corner reflector focuses all the energy back to the radar.
Here we have a table showing the RCS of different targets. Point to note.
Higher the RCS, stronger return signal from the target.
Hence, higher the probability of detection.
So a small corner reflector because of its shape can be detected far in the range,
whereas at truck may go undetected.